people talk about the war on crime and
they talked about the war on drugs which
was i guess the first to be
internationalized um
then there's the war on terror
it's
in every case a war of an enemy that
you're not going to beat right
it's a permanent war it's a war as a
state of being uh and in a way the state
is that war the state is the battle of
sovereign power
against some enemy which is both
completely dishonorable
um
but also completely unbeatable because
it's a constituent element in our nature
as the idea look at the word police
it's derived from polis uh the greek
word for city or community the idea is
the polis is is both
the community and it's also the means
that whereby we overcome our baser
nature to be able to live with each
other so police polite and politics all
come from the same route
which uh same similar ways to be
civilized comes from cities
and also to be civil civility politeness
politeness means repressing your bad
impulses so you know you're not a person
unless you have this sort of freudian
aid is the idea we're not a society
unless we have crime um crime will
always be there we are sinful we are
fallen creatures it all goes back to a
tradition of philosophy that says that
those are
there is a deep evil in our nature which
is what drives us to achieve things you
know the economy is ultimately based on
marshalling that selfish and anti-social
force for good instead of evil but in
order to do that you need to have cops
to stop you from being acting the same
way you would in the economy in any
other domain of human activity um thus
there is a a permanent war necessarily
at the basis of society and the police
are the embodiment um
[Music]
of that force of civilization which
means that they can't be civilized
themselves they're the people who sort
of make a sacrifice of of the gains that
you have um it's a little like hobbes
when he says we all give up our the
savagery of the state of nature by
giving one guy the power but that guy
who has the power actually is still a
sabbath he still lives in the state of
nature
um and and police that's the sovereign
right the police are
the point at which sovereignty of that
kind high hits the rubber um the rubber
hits the road uh
i believe it's the actual expression
there um and and
where that that monopoly of force that
supposedly makes us civilized but is not
itself civilized um
actually comes into play that's the idea
it's a war that can never be won because
it's the war that makes makes us now the
question is how do we overcome that what
would peace actually be like how could
we have a society where the social peace
isn't a truce and a permanent war
but is rather actual peace
what would it mean to actually live to
with each other without police and it
seems like inconceivable but in fact
police are relatively recent you know um
police forces such as exist today were
really just created over the course of
the 19th century and originally you know
when they created them they had almost
nothing to do with crime they were means
of controlling workers or the american
south uh escaped slaves or relief freed
uh african-americans former slaves
they were there for explicitly means of
social control and protecting property
breaking up strikes when the army
couldn't be brought in because they
might be um biased in favor of the
strikers things like that they were
political originally political police
same word